{{ Toc() }}

= Python Advocacy HOWTO =

''Author :'' A.M. Kuchling \\
''Release:'' 0.03

== Abstract ==

Its usually difficult to get your management to accept open source
software, and Python is no exception to this rule. This document
discusses reasons to use Python, strategies for winning acceptance,
facts and arguments you can use, and cases where you shouldn't try to
use Python.

== Reasons to Use Python ==

There are several reasons to incorporate a scripting language into
your development process, and this section will discuss them, and why
Python has some properties that make it a particularly good choice.
Programmability

Programs are often organized in a modular fashion. Lower-level
operations are grouped together, and called by higher-level functions,
which may in turn be used as basic operations by still further upper
levels.

For example, the lowest level might define a very low-level set of
functions for accessing a hash table. The next level might use hash
tables to store the headers of a mail message, mapping a header name
like Date to a value such as Tue, 13 May 1997 20:00:54 -0400. A yet
higher level may operate on message objects, without knowing or caring
that message headers are stored in a hash table, and so forth.

Often, the lowest levels do very simple things; they implement a data
structure such as a binary tree or hash table, or they perform some
simple computation, such as converting a date string to a number. The
higher levels then contain logic connecting these primitive
operations. Using the approach, the primitives can be seen as basic
building blocks which are then glued together to produce the complete
product.

Why is this design approach relevant to Python? Because Python is well
suited to functioning as such a glue language. A common approach is to
write a Python module that implements the lower level operations; for
the sake of speed, the implementation might be in C, Java, or even
Fortran. Once the primitives are available to Python programs, the
logic underlying higher level operations is written in the form of
Python code. The high-level logic is then more understandable, and
easier to modify.

